<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Epigraph</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="frontmatter">
		<section id="epigraph" epub:type="epigraph">
			<blockquote>
				<p id="id00013">_"Behold! human beings living in a sort of underground den, which has a mouth open towards the light and reaching all across the den; they have been here from their childhood, and have their legs and necks chained so that they cannot move, and can only see before them; for the chains are arranged in such a manner as to prevent them from turning round their heads. At a distance above and behind them the light of a fire is blazing, and between the fire and the prisoners there is a raised way; and you will see, if you look, a low wall built along the way, like the screen which marionette players have before them, over which they show the puppets.</p>
				<p id="id00014">I see, he said.</p>
				<p id="id00015">And do you see, I said, men passing along the wall carrying vessels, which appear over the wall; also figures of men and animals, made of wood and stone and various materials; and some of the prisoners, as you would expect, are talking, and some of them are silent?</p>
				<p id="id00016">This is a strange image, he said, and they are strange prisoners.</p>
				<p id="id00017">Like ourselves, I replied; and they see only their own shadows, or the shadows of one another, which the fire throws on the opposite wall of the cave?</p>
				<p id="id00018">True, he said: how could they see anything but the shadows if they were never allowed to move their heads?</p>
				<p id="id00019">And of the objects which are being carried in like manner they would see only the shadows?</p>
				<p id="id00020">Yes, he said.</p>
				<p id="id00021">And if they were able to talk with one another, would they not suppose that they were naming what was actually before them?"</p>
				<cite>The Republic of Plato, Book Seven. (Jowett Translation.)</cite>
			</blockquote>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
